.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH ADVI SECTION "february 26, 2002"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
advi \- a DVI previewer and presenter written in Objective Caml
.UR http://caml.inria.fr/ocaml/
(http://caml.inria.fr/ocaml/)
.UE
with some eye candy effects for presentation.

.SH VERSION
ActiveDVI 1.0.0
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B advi
.RI [ options ] " dvifile" ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page documents briefly the
.B advi 
command.

This manual page was written for the Debian GNU/Linux distribution
because the original program does not have a manual page.

.SH CURRENTLY SUPPORTED FEATURES:

\- Encapsulated Postscript File inclusion (using graphics package)

\- Effects for presentation (pause, delay, text color change)

\- Embedded applications for interactive demonstration

\- Pictures visualization via gpic specials

\- Display of inlined Postscript using gs

\- Font antialiasing that takes background colors into account

\- Page display is interrupted on user input

\- Resizing the page adjusts the magnification

\- Start displaying at a given page or at a given link reference

\- The file is reloading on signal SIGUSR1

\- Hyperlinks

\- Active areas (execute an action when the mouse is over)

\- Background colors and images

\- Alpha blending for images

Notice that advi needs the `kpsewhich' tool in order to find and
recompile PK fonts.  (This program is part of the `kpathsea' library
provided by many TeX distributions.)

.SH OPTIONS
Options are : 

.TP
.B \-g GEOM, \-geometry GEOM
sets the (maximum) geometry GEOM
.TP
.B \-crop
crop the window to the best size (default)
.TP
.B \-nocrop
disable cropping
.TP
.B \-nomargins
Suppress horizontal and vertical margins
.TP
.B \-hmargin DIMEN
horizontal margin  (default: 1cm)
.TP
.B \-vmargin DIMEN
vertical margin    (default: 1cm)
.TP
.B \-\-debug
General debug
.TP
.B \-\-debug_pages
Debug page motion
.TP
.B \-\-ignore_background
Ignore background for antialiasing
.TP
.B \-\-showps
Print a copy of Postscript sent to gs to stdout
.TP
.B \-\-verbose_image_access
Change the cursor while image loadings
.TP
.B \-A
Set Postscript antialiasing (default is unset)
.TP
.B \-bbox
Show the bounding box
.TP
.B \-bg
Draw in the background
.TP
.B \-bgcolor STRING
Set default background color (Named or RGB)
.TP
.B \-browser STRING
Command to call the browser
.TP
.B \-click_turn
Turn pages with mouse clicks (see the doc)
.TP
.B \-fg
Draw in the foreground
.TP
.B \-fgcolor STRING
Set default foreground color (Named or RGB)
.TP
.B \-fullwidth
Adjust size to width
.TP
.B \-html STRING
Make advi start at html reference of name STRING
.TP
.B \-inherit_background
Background options are inherited from previous page
.TP
.B \-noautoresize
Prevents scaling from resizing the window (done if geometry is provided)
.TP
.B \-nogs
Turn off dipslay of inlined Postscript
.TP
.B \-nopauses
Swictch pauses off
.TP
.B \-nowatch
Don't display a watch when busy
.TP
.B \-page INT 
Make advi start at page INT
.TP
.B \-pager STRING
Command to call the pager
.TP
.B \-pstricks
Show moveto
.TP
.B \-safer
Safer mode: external applications are not launched
.TP
.B \-scalestep REAL
Scale step for '<' and '>' (default sqrt(sqrt(2.0)))
.TP
.B \-watch FLOAT
Delay before the watch cursor appears (default 0.5s)
.TP
.B \-help, \-\-help
display this list of options

.P
Geometry GEOM is specified in pixels, using the standard format
for specifying geometries (i.e: "WIDTHxHEIGHT[+XOFFSET+YOFFSET]").

Dimensions (for options `-hmargin' and `-vmargin') are specified as
numbers optionally followed by two letters representing units.

When no units are given, dimensions are treated as numbers of pixels.

Currently supported units are the standard TeX units as specified in
the TeXbook (D. Knuth, Addison-Wesley, (C) 1986):
  
.RS 2
  `pt' (point), `pc' (pica), `in' (inch), `bp' (big point),
  `cm' (centimeter), `mm' (millimeter), `dd' (didot point),
  `cc' (cicero) and `sp' (scaled point).
.RE

Note that dimensions are specified w.r.t the original TeX document,
and do not correspond to what is actually shown on the screen, which
can be displayed at a different resolution than specified in the
original TeX source.

.SH KEYSTROKES

Advi recognizes the following keystrokes when typed in its window.
Each may optionally be preceded by a number, called ARG below, whose
interpretation is keystroke dependant. If ARG is unset, its value is
1, unless specified otherwise.

Advi maintains an history of previously visited pages organized as a stack.
Additionnally, the history contains mark pages which are stronger than
unmarked pages.

.RS 2
.TP 7 
.B q
Quits the program

.TP
.B return
If ARG is non zero, push the current page on the history stack, and move
forward Arg physical pages.

.TP
.B n
Move ARG physical pages forward, leaving the history unchanged.

.TP
.B p
Move ARG physical pages backward, leaving the history unchanged.

.TP
.B <tab>
Push the current page on top of the history as a marked page, do no move.

.TP
.B <space>
Move to the next pause if any, or do as return otherwise.

.TP
.B <backspace>
Move ARG pages backward according to the history.
The history stack is poped, accordingly.

.TP
.B <escape>
Move ARG marked pages backward according to the history.
Do nothing if the history does no contain any marked page.

.TP
.B g
If ARG is unset move to the last page.
If ARG is the current page do nothing.
Otherwise, push the current page on the history as a marked page, and move to
the physical page ARG.

.TP
.B ,
Move to the first page.

.TP
.B .
Move to the last page.

.TP
.B c
Center the page in the window and resets the default resolution.

.TP
.B <
Scale the resolution by 1/1.414

.TP
.B >
Scale the resolution by 1.414

.TP
.B f
Load all the fonts used in the documents.  By default, fonts are loaded
only when needed.

.TP
.B F
Does the same as `f', and precomputes the glyphs of all characters used
in the document.  This takes more time than loading the fonts, but the
pages are drawn faster.

.TP
.B r
Redraw the current page.

.TP
.B R
Reload the file and redraw the current page.

.TP
.B C
Erase the image cache

.RE

A click on an hyperlink, push the current page on this history as marked
(unless the target page is the current page) and move to the target page.
If the target is visible, it highlights the target.

Moreover, the user can drag the currently displayed page in the window
in order to change its relative position.  (This is useful when the
page is displayed at a resolution such that it cannot fit in the
window.)

.SH EYE CANDY MACROS

Using the LaTeX style advi.sty provided with the package, you can
embed some Active dvi specials into your TeX documents. Advi
interprets those specials to provide some eye candy features for your
presentation.

.TP
.B \epause
ActiveDvi stops rendering at the point of the document and wait a user key
stroke.

.TP
.B \ewait{sec}
Delay the rendering at the point of the document for sec seconds.

.TP
.B \etag{this}{material}
Define an "advi tag" named ``this'' to refer to the text enclosed in the
following brackets. The tag can be used to change the color of the text
later.

.TP
.B \ehide{this}{material}
Same as \etag{this}{material}, but does not render the text at this point. You
can display the text later, using the \eplay macro.

.TP
.B \eplay{this}
Display the texts associated with the tag ``this''.

.TP
.B \ehilight{this}{col}
Display the texts associated with the tag ``this'', using the color ``col''.

.RE
Please look at test/demo.{tex|dvi} and test/macros.{tex|dvi} for
more information and examples.

.SH COPYRIGHT
This program is distributed under the GNU LGPL.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR latex (1),
.BR kpsewhich (1),
.SH AUTHORS
Jun Furuse <Jun.Furuse@inria.fr>
Pierre Weis <Pierre.Weis@inria.fr>
Didier Remy <Didier.Remy@inria.fr> inlined Postcript, hyperlinks
Roberto Di Cosmo <dicosmo@pauillac.inria.fr>
Xavier Leroy <Xavier.Leroy@inria.fr> gpic specials
Didier Le Botlan <Didier.Le_Botlan@inria.fr>
Alan Schmitt <Alan.Schmitt@inria.fr>
Alexandre Miquel  <Alexandre.Miquel@inria.fr>
.br
This manual page was written by Sven LUTHER <luther@debian.org>,
for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).
